# Datasets 


## Bike Sharing Dataset Data Set 

##### Data Set Information:

Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, 
rental and return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike 
from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 
bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there 
exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and 
health issues. 

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being 
generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such 
as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these 
systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing 
mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected 
via monitoring these data.

##### Associated Tasks
- Regression: 
    > Predication of bike rental count hourly or daily based on the environmental and seasonal settings.

- Event and Anomaly Detection:  
    > Count of rented bikes are also correlated to some events in the town which easily are traceable via search engines.
    For instance, query like "2012-10-30 washington d.c." in Google returns related results to Hurricane Sandy. Some of the important events are 
    identified in [1]. Therefore the data can be used for validation of anomaly or event detection algorithms as well.



##### Attribute Information:

Both hour.csv and day.csv have the following fields, except hr which is not available in day.csv

- instant: 
    > record index
- dteday: 
    > date
- season: 
    > season (1:springer, 2:summer, 3:fall, 4:winter)
- yr: 
    > year (0: 2011, 1:2012)
- mnth: 
    > month ( 1 to 12)
- hr: 
    > hour (0 to 23)
- holiday: 
    > weather day is holiday or not (extracted from [Web Link])
- weekday: 
    > day of the week
- workingday: 
    > if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.
- weathersit:
    1. Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
    2. Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
    3. Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds
    4. Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
- temp 
    > Normalized temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t_min)/(t_max-t_min), t_min=-8, t_max=+39 (only in hourly scale)
- atemp 
    > Normalized feeling temperature in Celsius. The values are derived via (t-t_min)/(t_max-t_min), t_min=-16, t_max=+50 (only in hourly scale)
- hum
    > Normalized humidity. The values are divided to 100 (max)
- windspeed
    > Normalized wind speed. The values are divided to 67 (max)
- casual
    > count of casual users
- registered
    > count of registered users
- cnt
    > count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered

##### Citation:

    @article{
    year={2013}, 
    issn={2192-6352}, 
    journal={Progress in Artificial Intelligence}, 
    doi={10.1007/s13748-013-0040-3}, 
    title={Event labeling combining ensemble detectors and background knowledge}, 
    url={[Web Link]}, 
    publisher={Springer Berlin Heidelberg}, 
    keywords={Event labeling; Event detection; Ensemble learning; Background knowledge}, 
    author={Fanaee-T, Hadi and Gama, Joao}, 
    pages={1-15} 
    }


## Censurs 
Data Set Information:

Extraction was done by Barry Becker from the 1994 Census database. A set of reasonably clean records was extracted using the following conditions: ((AAGE>16) && (AGI>100) && (AFNLWGT>1)&& (HRSWK>0)) 

Prediction task is to determine whether a person makes over 50K a year. 


Attribute Information:

Listing of attributes: 

>50K, <=50K. 

- age: continuous. 
- workclass: Private, Self-emp-not-inc, Self-emp-inc, Federal-gov, Local-gov, State-gov, Without-pay, Never-worked. 
- fnlwgt: continuous. 
- education: Bachelors, Some-college, 11th, HS-grad, Prof-school, Assoc-acdm, Assoc-voc, 9th, 7th-8th, 12th, Masters, 1st-4th, 10th, Doctorate, 5th-6th, Preschool. 
- education-num: continuous. 
- marital-status: Married-civ-spouse, Divorced, Never-married, Separated, Widowed, Married-spouse-absent, Married-AF-spouse. 
- occupation: Tech-support, Craft-repair, Other-service, Sales, Exec-managerial, Prof-specialty, Handlers-cleaners, Machine-op-inspct, Adm-clerical, Farming-fishing, Transport-moving, Priv-house-serv, Protective-serv, Armed-Forces. 
- relationship: Wife, Own-child, Husband, Not-in-family, Other-relative, Unmarried. 
- race: White, Asian-Pac-Islander, Amer-Indian-Eskimo, Other, Black. 
- sex: Female, Male. 
- capital-gain: continuous. 
- capital-loss: continuous. 
- hours-per-week: continuous. 
- native-country: United-States, Cambodia, England, Puerto-Rico, Canada, Germany, Outlying-US(Guam-USVI-etc), India, Japan, Greece, South, China, Cuba, Iran, Honduras, Philippines, Italy, Poland, Jamaica, Vietnam, Mexico, Portugal, Ireland, France, Dominican-Republic, Laos, Ecuador, Taiwan, Haiti, Columbia, Hungary, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Scotland, Thailand, Yugoslavia, El-Salvador, Trinadad&Tobago, Peru, Hong, Holand-Netherlands.


Relevant Papers:

Ron Kohavi, "Scaling Up the Accuracy of Naive-Bayes Classifiers: a Decision-Tree Hybrid", Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 1996 
[Web Link]



## Online Video Characteristics and Transcoding Time Dataset Data Set 

Data Set Information:

The presented dataset is composed of two tsv files named 'youtube_videos.tsv' 
and 'transcoding_mesurment.tsv'. The first contains 10 columns of fundamental 
video characteristics for 1.6 million youtube videos; It contains YouTube video id, 
duration, bitrate(total in Kbits), bitrate(video bitrate in Kbits), 
height(in pixle), width(in pixles), framrate, estimated framerate, codec, 
category, and direct video link. This dataset can be used to gain insight 
in characteristics of consumer videos found on UGC(Youtube). 

The second file of our dataset contains 20 columns(see column names for names) 
which include input and output video characteristics along with their transcoding 
time and memory resource requirements while transcoding videos to diffrent but 
valid formats. The second dataset was collected based on experiments on an Intel 
i7-3720QM CPU through randomly picking two rows from the first dataset and using 
these as input and output parameters of a video transcoding application, ffmpeg 4 . 
In section 6 we will use the second dataset to build a transcoding time prediction 
model and show the significance of our datasets.


Attribute Information:

id = Youtube videp id 
duration = duration of video 
bitrate bitrate(video) = video bitrate 
height = height of video in pixles 
width = width of video in pixles 
frame rate = actual video frame rate 
frame rate(est.) = estimated video frame rate 
codec = coding standard used for the video 
category = YouTube video category 
url = direct link to video (has expiration date) 
i = number of i frames in the video 
p = number of p frames in the video 
b = number of b frames in the video 
frames = number of frames in video 
i_size = total size in byte of i videos 
p_size = total size in byte of p videos 
b_size = total size in byte of b videos 
size = total size of video 
o_codec = output codec used for transcoding 
o_bitrate = output bitrate used for transcoding 
o_framerate = output framerate used for transcoding 
o_width = output width in pixel used for transcoding 
o_height = output height used in pixel for transcoding 
umem = total codec allocated memory for transcoding 
utime = total transcoding time for transcoding


Relevant Papers:

@INPROCEEDINGS{6890256, 
author={Deneke, T. and Haile, H. and Lafond, S. and Lilius, J.}, 
booktitle={Multimedia and Expo (ICME), 2014 IEEE International Conference on}, 
title={Video transcoding time prediction for proactive load balancing}, 
year={2014}, 
month={July}, 
pages={1-6}, 
keywords={prediction theory;resource allocation;transcoding;video coding;video streaming;input video stream;proactive load balancing;video transcoding time prediction;Bit rate;Codecs;Load management;Load modeling;Predictive models;Transcoding;YouTube;Load Balancing;Machine Learning;Prediction;Transcoding}, 
doi={10.1109/ICME.2014.6890256},}




## YearPredictionMSD Data Set 

Data Set Information:

You should respect the following train / test split: 
train: first 463,715 examples 
test: last 51,630 examples 
It avoids the 'producer effect' by making sure no song 
from a given artist ends up in both the train and test set.


Attribute Information:

90 attributes, 12 = timbre average, 78 = timbre covariance 
The first value is the year (target), ranging from 1922 to 2011. 
Features extracted from the 'timbre' features from The Echo Nest API. 
We take the average and covariance over all 'segments', each segment 
being described by a 12-dimensional timbre vector.

